Daily blog #10:  The Top 7 UX Design Trends 

Author: uxplanet.org

Source: https://uxplanet.org/the-top-7-ux-design-trends-for-2022-1c1ad67b2bdb

User experience design is the process teams use to create products that provide meaningful and relevant 
experiences to users. The main focus to UX design is to adapt to everchanging trends to meet consumer demands 
and boost user engagement and satisfaction. 

You need to stay up to date on the latest trends and decide how to implement them into your designs. The top 
7 UX design trends to help you in this are:

*Increased personalization- With Netflix curating the shows you watch to suit your likes and Spotify knowing 
exactly what you want to listen to next, personalization has become a part of our daily lives.
*Design led by AR and VR- AR and VR change how users interact with products and boost engagement.For example, 
AR has been used in eCommerce apps to let users virtually try on clothes from the comfort of their homes.
*Visualized data- This involves presenting data in comprehendible visual formats like infographics which is 
crucial for UX designers.
*3D design and animation- Using 3D techniques can help build exciting visuals that boost the overall user 
experience and engagement.
*Micro-interactions- Designers must be creative in the way they implement micro-interactions because of their 
large impact on UX. For example, like buttons, innovative scroll bars and engaging in story telling methods.
*Minimalism with a twist- Designers are expected to keep the product minimal but add their own twist to draw 
and retain user interest. For example, using unique and interesting animation, scrolls and different text 
formats.
*Enhances cursors- Cursors are a primary tool that lets users interact with the UI. Cursors are a fun tool in 
your UX design toolkit and can be used to enhance any web app.

The take from this article is that you need to learn the core principals of UX/UI design to make it easier to 
adapt to changes in the ever-evolving world without changing your entire design. 
