Daily blog #5: Data Virtualization is a Mature Technology

Author: Yash Mehta

Source URL: https://readwrite.com/guide-to-data-virtualization-for-enterprises/

Data virtualization is an umbrella term used to describe an approach to data management that allows an 
application to retrieve and manipulate data without requiring technical details about the data. Data 
virtualization aims to create a single representation of data from multiple, disparate sources without 
having to copy or move the data.  It is a mature technology used as a part of a company’s data integration 
strategy. The technology creates a logical extraction layer in distributed management processing allowing 
users to access data of any format and heterogeneous source in a standardized manner.

Enterprises have been collecting data from numerous destinations or sources into data warehouses, data, or 
data lakes to consolidate it for further analysis and decision making. With increasing volume and variation 
of data, the data integration process seems time-consuming, costly, and prone to errors. Thus, Enterprises 
can easily access the data they require with data virtualization. It allows enterprises to meet their data 
demands as it allows you to view all your data in real-time from a single, centralized location. The quest 
for fast expansion has increased the number of unconnected physical databases and complex data in businesses. 
The quickest way to combine them for analytics is to use data virtualization. In addition, data 
virtualization is a more advanced method of transferring data from several locations.

With the increasing complexity of corporate operations, businesses continue to use various data management 
solutions resulting in increasing intricate data architecture. Using Data Virtualization software by the 
Kweli Capital development team will enable the designing of clean and concise data views using rich 
analytics,design, and development features. Also, selecting the finest data virtualization tool and solutions
compels a thorough examination of technological capabilities. 